BP subsidiary will pay a $ 40 million penalty and install technology to control releases of benzene and other contaminants at its Whiting oil refinery, Biden administration officials said Wednesday.

The actions will settle a civil case against BP Products North America Inc. filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency, which described the penalty as the largest ever under the Clean Air Act for pollution from a structure.

Additionally, the company will invest around $ 197 million in improvements.

This settlement will result in the reduction of hundreds of tons of harmful air pollution a year, which means cleaner, healthier air for local communities, said Larry Starfield, acting assistant administrator of EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.

The 134-year- old refinery, located between Hammond, Indiana, and Chicago, is the biggest in the Midwest and sixth largest nationally.

It processes about 440,000 barrels of crude oil daily, making a variety of liquid fuels and asphalt.

It has a record of pollution rule violations, reaching settlements in 2019 and 2022 over releases of sooty particulate matter linked to asthma and other respiratory diseases.

A new federal complaint accused the BP unit of breaking rules limiting benzene in refinery wastewater streams and emissions of hazardous and volatile air contaminants.

In addition to causing cancer, long- term inhalation of benzene is linked to blood disorders and reproductive problems for women, the EPA said.

Under the agreement, BP will add equipment to strip benzene from wastewater streams flowing to its lakefront treatment plant.

The company also promised a $ 5 million project to reduce diesel emissions in nearby communities.

The control measures will greatly improve air quality and reduce health impacts on the overburdened communities that surround the facility, said Todd Kim, assistant attorney general in the Department of Justice Environment and Natural Resources Division.

The settlement, which also involves the state of Indiana, requires court approval after a public comment period.

With this new agreement, we are committing to additional, robust steps including significant capital investments to monitor and mitigate wastewater emissions at Whiting Refinery, BP spokesperson Christina Audisho said in a statement.

The improvements will be made over the next several years, Audisho said.

The Environmental Integrity Project, an advocacy group that previously sued BP over Whiting refinery emissions, praised the latest settlement for holding BP accountable for its illegal emissions and for the tough new cleanup standards it imposes.


ABB wins automation contract for Cerilons first GTL plant 3/9/2023 ABB will supply front- end design services, including automation and digital solutions for $ 2.8 billion gas- to- liquids facility

First phase of the greenfield plant in North Dakota, USA, will produce up to 24,000 barrels per day of low emission synthetic energy products including ultra - low sulfur diesel

The collaboration will deliver future- proof plant design that will be replicated in other Cerilon sites ABB has been awarded the contract for front- end design services for automation, electrical and advanced digital solutions at Cerilons first gas- to- liquids( GTL) facility.

The greenfield site in North Dakota, USA, will produce up to 24,000 barrels( 3.8 million liters) per day of high- performance synthetic energy products including ultra - low sulfur diesel( ULSD), naphtha and lubricant base oils from natural gas reserves.

The first phase of the build is due to start operating in 2028.

The site also aims to integrate carbon capture and storage( CCS) technology to collectCO2emissionsat the location for transport to underground storage reservoirs.

No other GTL facilities in the world have CCS, making us the least carbon intensive.

Their team understood the requirements and presented us withexcellent automation and digitalization solutions, said Nico Duursema, Chief Executive Officer of Cerilon.

ABB has pioneered power and automation technologies and holds market leadership in these areas.

ABB will develop the Automation Design Basis( ADB) methodology whichwill influence and guide the automation project throughout the system lifecycle execution.

Serving as the core strategy guidance, itincludes reference frameworks, specifications and requirements, as well as engineering and maintenance activities, to ensuresafe, reliable and smart operations at the GTL facility.

It is a privilege to be selected as Cerilons automation partner to help create one of the most technologically advanced GTL facilities in the world while meeting the challenges of the energy transition head on, said Brandon Spencer, President of ABB Energy Industries.